# PATHFINDER-PROJECT
PROBLEM STATEMENT: It is crucial tool to understand, experiment with,
and apply various pathfinding algorithms. There is a need of a dynamic
platform where users can interactively explore how these algorithms
navigate through obstacles to find the different/shortest path between
two points on a map. Visualization in real-time can help users gain
insights into algorithm behaviour, compare different approaches, and
identify optimal solutions for specific scenarios.

MOTIVATION: The motivation for developing a pathfinding visualization
project lies in its educational value, practical applications, algorithm
comparison capabilities, problem-solving aid, and engagement benefits.
By providing an interactive platform, the project facilitates learning,
supports real-world applications, fosters algorithmic innovation, and
enhances problem-solving capabilities in various domains.

OBJECTIVES: • Implementing a visual representation of various
pathfinding algorithms to enhance understanding and facilitate
comparisons. • Solving real-world problems by providing a practical tool
for professionals working on route optimization, robotics path planning,
and game development. • Focusing on user convenience and making the tool
accessible for individuals with varying levels of programming and
algorithmic knowledge.

REQUIREMENT SPECIFICATION: • SFML library installed.

CONCLUSION AND FUTURE SCOPE In summary, the SFML pathfinding visualizer
project has effectively illustrated how to implement and visualize a
number of pathfinding algorithms, such as Dijkstra\'s Algorithm,
Depth-First Search (DFS), A\*, and Greedy Best-First Search. We have
learned a great deal about the capabilities and effectiveness of each
algorithm for determining the shortest path between two points in a
grid-based environment thanks to this research. The procedure is made
more intuitive by the visualization component, which also helps to
clarify how these algorithms operate inside. 

